Consul requires that all servers and clients have key pairs that are generated by a single Certificate Authority. 

In this lab you will use the PKI secrets engine to generate the necessary CA and certificates.

## Generate the root CA

Generate the root certificate and save the certificate in `CA_cert.crt`.

`vault write -field=certificate pki/root/generate/internal \
        common_name="dc1.consul" \
        ttl=87600h > CA_cert.crt`{{execute T1}}

This generates a new self-signed CA certificate and private key.
Vault will automatically revoke the generated root at the end of its lease period (TTL);
the CA certificate will sign its own Certificate Revocation List (CRL).

> If you want, you can inspect the certificate created using the `openssl` tool:
> `openssl x509 -text -noout -in CA_cert.crt`{{execute T1}}

Configure the CA and CRL URLs.

`vault write pki/config/urls \
        issuing_certificates="http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki/ca" \
        crl_distribution_points="http://127.0.0.1:8200/v1/pki/crl"`{{execute T1}}

Example output:

```
Success! Data written to: pki/config/urls
```

## Generate intermediate CA

First, enable the `pki` secrets engine at the `pki_int` path.

`vault secrets enable -path=pki_int pki`{{execute T1}}

Example output:

```
Success! Enabled the pki secrets engine at: pki_int/
```

Tune the `pki_int` secrets engine to issue certificates
with a maximum time-to-live (TTL) of 43800 hours.

`vault secrets tune -max-lease-ttl=43800h pki_int`{{execute T1}}

Example output:

```
Success! Tuned the secrets engine at: pki_int/
```

Request an intermediate certificate and save the CSR as `pki_intermediate.csr`.

`vault write -format=json pki_int/intermediate/generate/internal \
        common_name="dc1.consul Intermediate Authority" \
        | jq -r '.data.csr' > pki_intermediate.csr`{{execute T1}}

The command has no output.

### Sign the CSR

`vault write -format=json pki/root/sign-intermediate csr=@pki_intermediate.csr \
        format=pem_bundle ttl="43800h" \
        | jq -r '.data.certificate' > intermediate.cert.pem`{{execute T1}}

The command has no output.

Once the CSR is signed, and the root CA returns a certificate,
it can be imported back into Vault.

`vault write pki_int/intermediate/set-signed certificate=@intermediate.cert.pem`{{execute T1}}

Example output:

```
Success! Data written to: pki_int/intermediate/set-signed
```

## Create a role

A role is a logical name that maps to a policy used to generate credentials.

`vault write pki_int/roles/consul-dc1 \
        allowed_domains="dc1.consul" \
        allow_subdomains=true \
        generate_lease=true \
        max_ttl="720h"`{{execute T1}}

Example output:

```
Success! Data written to: pki_int/roles/consul-dc1
```

For this lab, you are using the following options for the role:

* `allowed_domains` :  Specifies the domains of the role. The command uses `dc1.consul` as the domain, which is the default configuration you are going to use for Consul.
* `allow_subdomains` : Specifies if clients can request certificates with CNs that are subdomains of the CNs allowed by the other role options (NOTE: This includes wildcard subdomains.)
* `generate_lease` :   Specifies if certificates issued/signed against this role will have Vault leases attached to them. Certificates can be added to the CRL by Vault revoke <lease_id> when certificates are associated with leases.

This completes the Vault configuration as a CA.
Move to next step to generate certificates.

<!-- This could go to next step -->

## Generate a server certificate

You can test the `pki` engine is configured correctly by generating your first certificate.

`vault write pki_int/issue/consul-dc1 \
  common_name="server.dc1.consul" \
  ttl="5m" | tee certs.txt`{{execute T1}}

<div style="background-color:#fcf6ea; color:#866d42; border:1px solid #f8ebcf; padding:1em; border-radius:3px; margin:24px 0;">
  <p><strong>Warning:</strong><br>
  
  The TTL for the certificate is being set to 5 minutes in this lab, meaning that this certificate will be valid only for 5 minutes before expiring. This will permit you to test automatic renewal for certificates without having to wait too long. 

</p></div>


Example output:

```
Key                 Value
---                 -----
lease_id            pki_int/issue/consul-dc1/lFfKfpxtM0xY0AHDlr9pJ2GM
lease_duration      23h59m59s
lease_renewable     false
ca_chain            [-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----]
certificate         -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
expiration          1599645187
issuing_ca          -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
...
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
private_key         -----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
...
-----END RSA PRIVATE KEY-----
private_key_type    rsa
serial_number       3f:ec:bd:ea:01:a6:35:49:a7:6d:17:ba:13:88:c1:b8:35:b4:fc:4c
```

<div style="background-color:#fcf6ea; color:#866d42; border:1px solid #f8ebcf; padding:1em; border-radius:3px;">
  <p><strong>Warning: </strong>
  In this hands-on lab, you are redirecting the output of the `vault write` command to a file to simplify operations in the next steps.
</p></div>
